docs/assemblies/assembly-overview.adoc, before:

// file included in the following:
//
// index.adoc

[id='assembly-overview-{context}']
= Kroxylicious overview

[role="_abstract"]
Kroxylicious is an Apache Kafka protocol-aware ("Layer 7") proxy designed to enhance Kafka-based systems.
Through its filter mechanism it allows additional behavior to be introduced into a Kafka-based system without requiring changes to either your applications or the Kafka cluster itself. 
Built-in filters are provided as part of the solution.

Functioning as an intermediary, the Kroxylicious mediates communication between a Kafka cluster and its clients. 
It takes on the responsibility of receiving, filtering, and forwarding messages.

An API provides a convenient means for implementing custom logic within the proxy.

[id='assembly-overview-compatability{context}']
== Compatibility

[id='assembly-overview-compatability-api{context}']
=== APIs

Kroxylicious follows https://semver.org/#semantic-versioning-200[Semantic Versioning] rules. While we are still in the `0.y.z` phase we still take API compatability very seriously, we aim to provide at least two minor releases between deprecation and the removal of that deprecated item.

We also consider our configuration model to be a "public API", and thus it will follow the same Semantic Versioning and deprecation rules.

Kubernetes Custom Resources are obviously considered to be a public API, and we will make every effort to evolve them in line with Kubernetes best practice.

[id='assembly-overview-compatability-wire-protocol{context}']
=== Wire Protocol

Kroxylicious offers the same backwards & forwards compatability guarantees as https://kafka.apache.org/protocol#protocol_compatibility[Apache Kafka]. We will support the same range of client and broker versions as the official Apache Kafka Java client.

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* {ApacheKafkaSite}

Commit message:

Add a note on 3rd party plug-ins
Signed-off-by: Sam Barker <sbarker@redhat.com>

rh-pre-commit.version: 2.0.1
rh-pre-commit.check-secrets: ENABLED

docs/assemblies/assembly-overview.adoc, after:

// file included in the following:
//
// index.adoc

[id='assembly-overview-{context}']
= Kroxylicious overview

[role="_abstract"]
Kroxylicious is an Apache Kafka protocol-aware ("Layer 7") proxy designed to enhance Kafka-based systems.
Through its filter mechanism it allows additional behavior to be introduced into a Kafka-based system without requiring changes to either your applications or the Kafka cluster itself. 
Built-in filters are provided as part of the solution.

Functioning as an intermediary, the Kroxylicious mediates communication between a Kafka cluster and its clients. 
It takes on the responsibility of receiving, filtering, and forwarding messages.

An API provides a convenient means for implementing custom logic within the proxy.

[id='assembly-overview-compatability{context}']
== Compatibility

[id='assembly-overview-compatability-api{context}']
=== APIs

Kroxylicious follows https://semver.org/#semantic-versioning-200[Semantic Versioning] rules. While we are still in the `0.y.z` phase we still take API compatability very seriously, we aim to provide at least two minor releases between deprecation and the removal of that deprecated item.

We also consider our configuration model to be a "public API", and thus it will follow the same Semantic Versioning and deprecation rules.

Kubernetes Custom Resources are obviously considered to be a public API, and we will make every effort to evolve them in line with Kubernetes best practice.

==== Plugins

Kroxylicious supports loading third party plug-ins to extend the functionality provided by the core project. While these plugins are configured and loaded as first class entities within Kroxylicious we cannot make any guarantees about the compatability of their APIs or configuration properties.

We do however hold filters and plug-ins provided by the project to the same standards as the rest of the public API.

[id='assembly-overview-compatability-wire-protocol{context}']
=== Wire Protocol

Kroxylicious offers the same backwards & forwards compatability guarantees as https://kafka.apache.org/protocol#protocol_compatibility[Apache Kafka]. We will support the same range of client and broker versions as the official Apache Kafka Java client.

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* {ApacheKafkaSite}
