docs/modules/monitoring/con-proxy-integrating-micrometer.adoc, before:

// file included in the following:
//
// assembly-proxy-monitoring.adoc

[id='con-proxy-integrating-micrometer-{context}']
= Integrating Micrometer
Kroxylicious integrates with https://micrometer.io/docs[Micrometer] for gathering metrics.

Micrometer provides a simple facade over instrumentation clients for popular observability systems, allowing you to instrument your JVM-based application code without vendor lock-in. 
The following example shows how to define the `CommonTagsHook` and `StandardBindersHook` types to add a label to metrics and register a JVM metrics binder.

.Example proxy configuration for Micrometer integration
[source,yaml]
----
management:
  endpoints:
    prometheus: {}
micrometer:
  - type: "CommonTagsHook" # <1>
    config:
      commonTags:
        zone: "euc-1a" # <2>
  - type: "StandardBindersHook" # <3>
    config:
      binderNames:
      - "JvmGcMetrics" # <4>
----
<1> Specifies the `CommonTagsHook` type to add common tags to all metrics.
<2> Adds common tag zone `euc-1a` to all metrics in the global registry included with Micrometer, which appears as a label in Prometheus.
<3> Specifies the `StandardBindersHook` type to register standard Micrometer binders.
<4> Registers the `JvmGcMetrics` binder with the global registry.

Prometheus is connected to the Micrometer global registry, so filters can record metrics against it as part of the Prometheus scrape data.

Using the `curl localhost:9190/metrics` command shows metrics as follows:

.Example metrics returned from request
[source,shell]
----
jvm_gc_memory_allocated_bytes_total{zone="euc-1a",} 0.0
----

== Common tags

Add common tags for metrics to appear as labels in the Prometheus scrape.

.Example common tag configuration
[source,yaml]
----
- type: "CommonTagsHook"
  config:
    commonTags:
      zone: "euc-1a"
      owner: "team-a"
----

== Standard binders

Micrometer uses the concept of meter binders to register metrics that provide information about the state of some aspect of the application or its container.
By registering standard binders included with Micrometer, you can expose metrics about the JVM and system, such as JVM memory usage and garbage collection.

.Example binders configuration
[source,yaml]
----
micrometer:
  - type: "StandardBindersHook"
    config:
      binderNames:
      - "JvmGcMetrics"
      - "JvmHeapPressureMetrics"
----

.Standard binders available with Micrometer
[cols="2m,4m",options="header"]
|===
 
| Name | Micrometer class 
| ClassLoaderMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.jvm.ClassLoaderMetrics 
| JvmCompilationMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.jvm.JvmCompilationMetrics 
| JvmGcMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.jvm.JvmGcMetrics 
| JvmHeapPressureMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.jvm.JvmHeapPressureMetrics 
| JvmInfoMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.jvm.JvmInfoMetrics 
| JvmMemoryMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.jvm.JvmMemoryMetrics 
| JvmThreadMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.jvm.JvmThreadMetrics 
| FileDescriptorMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.system.FileDescriptorMetrics 
| ProcessorMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.system.ProcessorMetrics 
| UptimeMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.system.UptimeMetrics 

|===

== Using Micrometer with filters

Use the static methods of https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.micrometer/micrometer-core/1.10.5/io/micrometer/core/instrument/Metrics.html[Micrometer Metrics^] to register metrics with the global registry. 

Alternatively, use `Metrics.globalRegistry` to get a reference to the global registry. 
Metrics registered this way are automatically available through the Prometheus scrape endpoint.

Commit message:

feat: enable Micrometer pause detection (#151) (#2409)
* feat: implement micrometer configruation hook for configuring pause detector (#151)
dquote> - implement a MicrometerConfigurationHook for configuring pause detector to the meter registry
dquote> - add the new hook to MicrometerConfigurationHook's service loader configuration
dquote> - add unit tests for the implemented hook

Signed-off-by: The-East-Wind <hariatul1998@gmail.com>

* chore: polishing PauseDetetorHook and tests

Signed-off-by: The-East-Wind <hariatul1998@gmail.com>

* docs: document pause detector hook configuration (#151)

Signed-off-by: The-East-Wind <hariatul1998@gmail.com>

* refactor: change PauseDetectorHook.Hook to a record

Signed-off-by: The-East-Wind <hariatul1998@gmail.com>

* docs: enhance pause detector documentation (add cautionary note)

Signed-off-by: The-East-Wind <hariatul1998@gmail.com>

* docs: polish pause detector documentation

Signed-off-by: The-East-Wind <hariatul1998@gmail.com>

* chore: clean up logging in PauseDetectorHook

Signed-off-by: The-East-Wind <hariatul1998@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: The-East-Wind <hariatul1998@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Sam Barker <sam@quadrocket.co.uk>

docs/modules/monitoring/con-proxy-integrating-micrometer.adoc, after:

// file included in the following:
//
// assembly-proxy-monitoring.adoc

[id='con-proxy-integrating-micrometer-{context}']
= Integrating Micrometer
Kroxylicious integrates with https://micrometer.io/docs[Micrometer] for gathering metrics.

Micrometer provides a simple facade over instrumentation clients for popular observability systems, allowing you to instrument your JVM-based application code without vendor lock-in. 
The following example shows how to define the `CommonTagsHook` and `StandardBindersHook` types to add a label to metrics and register a JVM metrics binder.

.Example proxy configuration for Micrometer integration
[source,yaml]
----
management:
  endpoints:
    prometheus: {}
micrometer:
  - type: "CommonTagsHook" # <1>
    config:
      commonTags:
        zone: "euc-1a" # <2>
  - type: "StandardBindersHook" # <3>
    config:
      binderNames:
      - "JvmGcMetrics" # <4>
----
<1> Specifies the `CommonTagsHook` type to add common tags to all metrics.
<2> Adds common tag zone `euc-1a` to all metrics in the global registry included with Micrometer, which appears as a label in Prometheus.
<3> Specifies the `StandardBindersHook` type to register standard Micrometer binders.
<4> Registers the `JvmGcMetrics` binder with the global registry.

Prometheus is connected to the Micrometer global registry, so filters can record metrics against it as part of the Prometheus scrape data.

Using the `curl localhost:9190/metrics` command shows metrics as follows:

.Example metrics returned from request
[source,shell]
----
jvm_gc_memory_allocated_bytes_total{zone="euc-1a",} 0.0
----

== Common tags

Add common tags for metrics to appear as labels in the Prometheus scrape.

.Example common tag configuration
[source,yaml]
----
- type: "CommonTagsHook"
  config:
    commonTags:
      zone: "euc-1a"
      owner: "team-a"
----

== Standard binders

Micrometer uses the concept of meter binders to register metrics that provide information about the state of some aspect of the application or its container.
By registering standard binders included with Micrometer, you can expose metrics about the JVM and system, such as JVM memory usage and garbage collection.

.Example binders configuration
[source,yaml]
----
micrometer:
  - type: "StandardBindersHook"
    config:
      binderNames:
      - "JvmGcMetrics"
      - "JvmHeapPressureMetrics"
----

.Standard binders available with Micrometer
[cols="2m,4m",options="header"]
|===
 
| Name | Micrometer class 
| ClassLoaderMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.jvm.ClassLoaderMetrics 
| JvmCompilationMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.jvm.JvmCompilationMetrics 
| JvmGcMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.jvm.JvmGcMetrics 
| JvmHeapPressureMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.jvm.JvmHeapPressureMetrics 
| JvmInfoMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.jvm.JvmInfoMetrics 
| JvmMemoryMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.jvm.JvmMemoryMetrics 
| JvmThreadMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.jvm.JvmThreadMetrics 
| FileDescriptorMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.system.FileDescriptorMetrics 
| ProcessorMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.system.ProcessorMetrics 
| UptimeMetrics | io.micrometer.core.instrument.binder.system.UptimeMetrics 

|===

== Pause detector

Micrometer offers a pause detector (using the https://latencyutils.github.io/LatencyUtils/[LatencyUtils^] package) which attempts to compensate for
 requests which would have been accepted and delayed by a pause arising from a source external
 to the monitored section (There are a wide variety of possible sources such as Garbage collectors
 or system pauses).
Micrometer defaults to a no-op pause detector implementation, but it also provides a clock drift based
 implementation which can be optionally configured.
The clock drift based pause detector can be configured by providing a sleep interval a pause threshold.
These values are defaulted to the Micrometer recommended `100ms` but you can choose to configure
 different values based on your environment.
Using the clock drift based pause detector can result in samples being added to timers in
 unexpected ways in some degenerate cases so users are advised to use it after careful consideration.

See https://micrometer.io/docs/concepts#_pause_detection[Micrometer Pause Detection^]

.Example pause detector configuration
[source,yaml]
----
micrometer:
  - type: "PauseDetectorHook"
    config:
      sleepIntervalMs: 500
      pauseThresholdMs: 500
----

== Using Micrometer with filters

Use the static methods of https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.micrometer/micrometer-core/1.10.5/io/micrometer/core/instrument/Metrics.html[Micrometer Metrics^] to register metrics with the global registry. 

Alternatively, use `Metrics.globalRegistry` to get a reference to the global registry. 
Metrics registered this way are automatically available through the Prometheus scrape endpoint.
