docs/modules/monitoring/proc-introducing-metrics.adoc, before:

// file included in the following:
//
// assembly-monitoring-proxy.adoc

[id='proc-introducing-metrics-{context}']
= Introducing metrics

[role="_abstract"]
If you want to introduce metrics to your Kroxylicious deployment, you can configure an insecure HTTP and Prometheus endpoint (at `/metrics`).

Add the following to the `ConfigMap` resource that defines the Kroxylicious configuration:

.Minimal metrics configuration
[source,yaml]
----
adminHttp:
  endpoints:
    prometheus: {}
----

By default, the HTTP endpoint listens on `0.0.0.0:9190`.
You can change the hostname and port as follows:

.Example metrics configuration with hostname and port
[source,yaml]
----
adminHttp:
  host: localhost
  port: 9999
  endpoints:
    prometheus: {}
----

The example files provided with the proxy include a `PodMonitor` resource.
If you have enabled monitoring in OpenShift for user-defined projects, you can use a `PodMonitor` resource to ingest the proxy metrics.

.Example `PodMonitor` resource configuration
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: PodMonitor
metadata:
  name: proxy
  labels:
    app: proxy
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: proxy
  namespaceSelector:
    matchNames:
      - proxy
  podMetricsEndpoints:
  - path: /metrics
    port: metrics
----

Commit message:

Fix #1903: Rename `adminHttp` to `management` in the config model
Also renames the `host` configuration property within the `management` object to `bindAddress`.

Retains support for use of the old names is maintained but use is deprecated.

Signed-off-by: Keith Wall <kwall@apache.org>

docs/modules/monitoring/proc-introducing-metrics.adoc, after:

// file included in the following:
//
// assembly-monitoring-proxy.adoc

[id='proc-introducing-metrics-{context}']
= Introducing metrics

[role="_abstract"]
If you want to introduce metrics to your Kroxylicious deployment, you can configure an insecure HTTP and Prometheus endpoint (at `/metrics`).

Add the following to the `ConfigMap` resource that defines the Kroxylicious configuration:

.Minimal metrics configuration
[source,yaml]
----
management:
  endpoints:
    prometheus: {}
----

By default, the HTTP endpoint listens on `0.0.0.0:9190`.
You can change the bind address and port as follows:

.Example metrics configuration with bind address and port
[source,yaml]
----
management:
  bindAddress: 127.0.0.1
  port: 9999
  endpoints:
    prometheus: {}
----

The example files provided with the proxy include a `PodMonitor` resource.
If you have enabled monitoring in OpenShift for user-defined projects, you can use a `PodMonitor` resource to ingest the proxy metrics.

.Example `PodMonitor` resource configuration
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: PodMonitor
metadata:
  name: proxy
  labels:
    app: proxy
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: proxy
  namespaceSelector:
    matchNames:
      - proxy
  podMetricsEndpoints:
  - path: /metrics
    port: management
----
