kroxylicious-docs/docs/_modules/configuring/con-configuring-vc-target.adoc, before:

////
  // Copyright Kroxylicious Authors.
  //
  // Licensed under the Apache Software License version 2.0, available at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
////
:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT

[id='con-configuring-vc-target-{context}']
= Configuring target cluster

[role="_abstract"]
The target cluster specifies the physical upstream Kafka cluster which is proxied by the `my-cluster-proxy` virtual cluster.

The target cluster configuration has 3 properties.

1. `bootstrapServers`: The bootstrap addresses of the physical Kafka cluster being proxied.
You can specify multiple addresses by providing a comma separated list.
Having multiple addresses helps spread the load and also provides better reliability.
2. `bootstrapServerSelection.strategy`: The bootstrapping process will select one bootstrap server from the list of configured servers.
This property configures the strategy used for selecting the bootstrap server.
If this is not explicitly configured the strategy defaults to `round-robin`.
3. `tls`: TLS configuration for connecting to the target Kafka cluster.
See xref:con-configuring-vc-target-tls-{context}[Securing connections to target clusters] for more details.

Examples below illustrate the various strategies which can be used for selecting a bootstrap server from the list of addresses configured.

When multiple bootstrap servers are configured with no bootstrap server selection strategy explicitly configured, the bootstrap server is selected using the `round-robin` strategy.

.Example using default strategy
[source,yaml]
----
#...
virtualClusters:
    - name: my-cluster-proxy
      # ...
      targetCluster:
        bootstrapServers: my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap-0.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093, my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap-1.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093, my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap-2.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093
        tls: {}
#...
----

The below example illustrates explicitly configuring a bootstrap server selection strategy.

.Example configuring a bootstrap server selection strategy
[source,yaml]
----
#...
virtualClusters:
  - name: my-cluster-proxy
    #...
    targetCluster:
      bootstrapServers: my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap-0.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093, my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap-1.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093, my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap-2.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093
      bootstrapServerSelection:
        strategy: "round-robin" # <1>
----

<1> Round-robin strategy for bootstrap server selection.
Other supported strategy is `random`.

Commit message:

chore: address review comments - link module to configuring proxy assembly - enumerate various strategies in the abstract section - add note on Strimzi managed clusters
Signed-off-by: The-East-Wind <hariatul1998@gmail.com>

kroxylicious-docs/docs/_modules/configuring/con-configuring-vc-target.adoc, after:

////
  // Copyright Kroxylicious Authors.
  //
  // Licensed under the Apache Software License version 2.0, available at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
////
:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT

[id='con-configuring-vc-target-{context}']
= Configuring target cluster

[role="_abstract"]
The target cluster specifies the physical upstream Kafka cluster which is proxied by the `my-cluster-proxy` virtual cluster.

The target cluster configuration has 3 properties.

1. `bootstrapServers`: The bootstrap addresses of the physical Kafka cluster being proxied. You can specify multiple addresses by providing a comma separated list. If you want to bootstrap to individual Kafka brokers, then having multiple addresses helps spread the bootstrapping load and also provides better reliability.
+
NOTE: If the target cluster is a *Strimzi* managed Kafka cluster, you can specify the address of the *bootstrap service* which takes care of distributing the requests.

2. `bootstrapServerSelection.strategy`: The bootstrapping process will select one bootstrap server from the list of configured servers.
This property configures the strategy used for selecting the bootstrap server. +
The following strategies are supported:
.. `round-robin`: This strategy selects a server from the configured list of servers in a round-robin manner starting from the first server looping back after the last server is selected. This is default strategy used when no strategy is explicitly configured.
.. `random`: This strategy selects a random server from the configured list of servers.
3. `tls`: TLS configuration for connecting to the target Kafka cluster.
See xref:con-configuring-vc-target-tls-{context}[Securing connections to target clusters] for more details.

Examples below illustrate the various strategies which can be used for selecting a bootstrap server from the list of addresses configured.

When multiple bootstrap servers are configured with no bootstrap server selection strategy explicitly configured, the bootstrap server is selected using the `round-robin` strategy.

.Example using default strategy
[source,yaml]
----
#...
virtualClusters:
    - name: my-cluster-proxy
      # ...
      targetCluster:
        bootstrapServers: my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap-0.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093, my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap-1.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093, my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap-2.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093
        tls: {}
#...
----

The below example illustrates explicitly configuring a bootstrap server selection strategy.

.Example configuring a bootstrap server selection strategy
[source,yaml]
----
#...
virtualClusters:
  - name: my-cluster-proxy
    #...
    targetCluster:
      bootstrapServers: my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap-0.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093, my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap-1.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093, my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap-2.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093
      bootstrapServerSelection:
        strategy: "round-robin" # <1>
      tls: {}
#...
----

<1> Round-robin strategy for bootstrap server selection.
