kroxylicious-docs/docs/_modules/monitoring/con-prometheus-metrics-proxy.adoc, before:

// file included in the following:
//
// kroxylicious-operator/index.adoc

[id='con-prometheus-metrics-proxy-{context}']
= Overview of proxy metrics

[role="_abstract"]

The proxy provides metrics for both connections and messages.
These metrics are categorized into downstream (client-side) and upstream (broker-side) groups
They allow users to assess the impact of the proxy and its filters on their Kafka system.

* Connection metrics count the connections made from the downstream (incoming connections from the clients) and the connection made by the proxy to upstream (outgoing connections to the Kafka brokers).
* Message metrics count the number of {kafka-protocol}#protocol_messages[Kafka protocol request and response messages] that flow through the proxy.

== Connection metrics

Connection metrics count the TCP connections made from the client to the proxy (`kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_request_total`) and from the proxy to the broker (`kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_connections_total`).
These metrics count connection _attempts_, so the connection count is incremented even if the connection attempt ultimately fails.

In addition to the count metrics, there are error metrics.

* If an error occurs whilst the proxy is accepting a connection from the client the `kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_errors_total` metric is incremented by one.
* If an error occurs whilst the proxy is attempting a connection to a broker the `kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_errors_total` metric is incremented by one.

Connection and connection error metrics include the following labels: `virtual_cluster` (the virtual cluster's name) and `node_id` (the broker's node ID).
When the client connects to the boostrap endpoint of the virtual cluster, a node ID value of `bootstrap` is recorded.

The `kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_errors_total` metric also counts connection errors that occur before a virtual cluster has been identified.
For these specific errors, the `virtual_cluster` and `node_id` labels are set to an empty string ("").

NOTE: Error conditions signaled _within_ the Kafka protocol response (such as `RESOURCE_NOT_FOUND` or `UNKNOWN_TOPIC_ID`) are not classed as errors by these metrics.

.Connection metrics for client and broker interactions
|===
|Metric Name |Type |Labels|Description

|`kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_connections_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is accepted from a client by the proxy. +
 This metric counts all connection attempts that reach the proxy, even those that end in error.

|`kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_errors_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is closed due to any downstream error.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_connections_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is made to the server from the proxy. +
 This metric counts all connections attempted to the broker, even those that end in error.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_errors_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is closed due to any upstream error.
|===

== Message metrics

Message metrics count and record the sizes of the Kafka protocol requests and responses that flow through the proxy.

Use these metrics to help understand:

* the number of messages flowing through the proxy.
* the overall volume of data through the proxy.
* the effect the filters are having on the messages.

* Downstream metrics
** `kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_request_total` counts requests as they arrive from the client.
** `kroxylicious_proxy_to_client_response_total` counts responses as they are returned to the client.
** `kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_request_size_bytes` is incremented by the size of each request as it arrives from the client.
** `kroxylicious_proxy_to_client_response_size_bytes` is incremented by the size of each response as it is returned to the client.

* Upstream metrics
** `kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_request_total` counts requests as they go to the broker.
** `kroxylicious_server_to_proxy_response_total` counts responses as they are returned by the broker.
** `kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_request_size_bytes` is incremented by the size of each request as it goes to the broker.
** `kroxylicious_server_to_proxy_response_size_bytes` is incremented by the size of each response as it is returned by the broker.

The size recorded is the encoded size of the protocol message. It includes the 4 byte {kafka-protocol}#protocol_common[message size].

Filters can alter the flow of messages through the proxy or the content of the message.
This is apparent through the metrics.

* If a filter sends a short-circuit, or closes a connection the downstream message counters will exceed the upstream counters.
* If a filter changes the size of the message, the downstream size metrics will be different to the upstream size metrics.

.Downstream and upstream message metrics in the proxy
image::{realimagesdir}/monitoring-message-counters.svg["Conceptual diagram showing the downstream and upstream message metrics within the proxy, illustrating how they respond to message transit through it."]

Message metrics include the following labels: `virtual_cluster` (the virtual cluster's name), `node_id` (the broker's node ID), `api_key` (the message type), `api_version`, and `decoded` (a flag indicating if the message was decoded by the proxy).

When the client connects to the boostrap endpoint of the virtual cluster, metrics are recorded with a node ID value of `bootstrap`.

.Kafka message metrics for proxy request and response flow
|===
|Metric Name |Type |Labels|Description

|`kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_request_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by one every time a request arrives at the proxy from a client.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_request_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by one every time a request goes from the proxy to a server.

|`kroxylicious_server_to_proxy_response_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by one every time a response arrives at the proxy from a server.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_client_response_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by one every time a response goes from the proxy to a client.

|`kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_request_total`
|Distribution
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by the size of the message each time a request arrives at the proxy from a client.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_request_total`
|Distribution
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by the size of the message each time a request goes from the proxy to a server.

|`kroxylicious_server_to_proxy_response_total`
|Distribution
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by the size of the message each time a response arrives at the proxy from a server.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_client_response_total`
|Distribution
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by the size of the message each time a response goes from the proxy to a client.

|===

Commit message:

feat(metrics): Added active connection guage
Signed-off-by: Hrishabh Gupta <hgupta@confluent.io>

kroxylicious-docs/docs/_modules/monitoring/con-prometheus-metrics-proxy.adoc, after:

// file included in the following:
//
// kroxylicious-operator/index.adoc

[id='con-prometheus-metrics-proxy-{context}']
= Overview of proxy metrics

[role="_abstract"]

The proxy provides metrics for both connections and messages.
These metrics are categorized into downstream (client-side) and upstream (broker-side) groups
They allow users to assess the impact of the proxy and its filters on their Kafka system.

* Connection metrics count the connections made from the downstream (incoming connections from the clients) and the connection made by the proxy to upstream (outgoing connections to the Kafka brokers).
* Message metrics count the number of {kafka-protocol}#protocol_messages[Kafka protocol request and response messages] that flow through the proxy.

== Connection metrics

Connection metrics count the TCP connections made from the client to the proxy (`kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_request_total`) and from the proxy to the broker (`kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_connections_total`).
These metrics count connection _attempts_, so the connection count is incremented even if the connection attempt ultimately fails.

In addition to the count metrics, there are active connection gauge metrics that track the current number of open connections, and error metrics.

* If an error occurs whilst the proxy is accepting a connection from the client the `kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_errors_total` metric is incremented by one.
* If an error occurs whilst the proxy is attempting a connection to a broker the `kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_errors_total` metric is incremented by one.

Connection and connection error metrics include the following labels: `virtual_cluster` (the virtual cluster's name) and `node_id` (the broker's node ID).
When the client connects to the boostrap endpoint of the virtual cluster, a node ID value of `bootstrap` is recorded.

The `kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_errors_total` metric also counts connection errors that occur before a virtual cluster has been identified.
For these specific errors, the `virtual_cluster` and `node_id` labels are set to an empty string ("").

NOTE: Error conditions signaled _within_ the Kafka protocol response (such as `RESOURCE_NOT_FOUND` or `UNKNOWN_TOPIC_ID`) are not classed as errors by these metrics.

=== Understanding connection counter vs gauge metrics

The proxy provides both counter and gauge metrics for connections:

* **Connection counters** (`kroxylicious_*_connections_total`) track the total number of connection attempts over time. These values only increase and provide a historical view of connection activity.
* **Active connection gauges** (`kroxylicious_*_active_connections`) show the current number of open connections at any given moment. These values increase when connections are established and decrease when connections are closed.

.Connection metrics for client and broker interactions
|===
|Metric Name |Type |Labels|Description

|`kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_connections_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is accepted from a client by the proxy. +
 This metric counts all connection attempts that reach the proxy, even those that end in error.

|`kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_errors_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is closed due to any downstream error.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_connections_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is made to the server from the proxy. +
 This metric counts all connections attempted to the broker, even those that end in error.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_errors_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Incremented by one every time a connection is closed due to any upstream error.

|`kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_active_connections`
|Gauge
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Shows the current number of active TCP connections from clients to the proxy. +
 This gauge reflects real-time connection state and decreases when connections are closed.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_active_connections`
|Gauge
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`
|Shows the current number of active TCP connections from the proxy to servers. +
 This gauge reflects real-time connection state and decreases when connections are closed.
|===

== Message metrics

Message metrics count and record the sizes of the Kafka protocol requests and responses that flow through the proxy.

Use these metrics to help understand:

* the number of messages flowing through the proxy.
* the overall volume of data through the proxy.
* the effect the filters are having on the messages.

* Downstream metrics
** `kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_request_total` counts requests as they arrive from the client.
** `kroxylicious_proxy_to_client_response_total` counts responses as they are returned to the client.
** `kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_request_size_bytes` is incremented by the size of each request as it arrives from the client.
** `kroxylicious_proxy_to_client_response_size_bytes` is incremented by the size of each response as it is returned to the client.

* Upstream metrics
** `kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_request_total` counts requests as they go to the broker.
** `kroxylicious_server_to_proxy_response_total` counts responses as they are returned by the broker.
** `kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_request_size_bytes` is incremented by the size of each request as it goes to the broker.
** `kroxylicious_server_to_proxy_response_size_bytes` is incremented by the size of each response as it is returned by the broker.

The size recorded is the encoded size of the protocol message. It includes the 4 byte {kafka-protocol}#protocol_common[message size].

Filters can alter the flow of messages through the proxy or the content of the message.
This is apparent through the metrics.

* If a filter sends a short-circuit, or closes a connection the downstream message counters will exceed the upstream counters.
* If a filter changes the size of the message, the downstream size metrics will be different to the upstream size metrics.

.Downstream and upstream message metrics in the proxy
image::{realimagesdir}/monitoring-message-counters.svg["Conceptual diagram showing the downstream and upstream message metrics within the proxy, illustrating how they respond to message transit through it."]

Message metrics include the following labels: `virtual_cluster` (the virtual cluster's name), `node_id` (the broker's node ID), `api_key` (the message type), `api_version`, and `decoded` (a flag indicating if the message was decoded by the proxy).

When the client connects to the boostrap endpoint of the virtual cluster, metrics are recorded with a node ID value of `bootstrap`.

.Kafka message metrics for proxy request and response flow
|===
|Metric Name |Type |Labels|Description

|`kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_request_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by one every time a request arrives at the proxy from a client.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_request_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by one every time a request goes from the proxy to a server.

|`kroxylicious_server_to_proxy_response_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by one every time a response arrives at the proxy from a server.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_client_response_total`
|Counter
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by one every time a response goes from the proxy to a client.

|`kroxylicious_client_to_proxy_request_total`
|Distribution
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by the size of the message each time a request arrives at the proxy from a client.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_server_request_total`
|Distribution
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by the size of the message each time a request goes from the proxy to a server.

|`kroxylicious_server_to_proxy_response_total`
|Distribution
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by the size of the message each time a response arrives at the proxy from a server.

|`kroxylicious_proxy_to_client_response_total`
|Distribution
|`virtual_cluster`, `node_id`, `api_key`, `api_version`, `decoded`
|Incremented by the size of the message each time a response goes from the proxy to a client.

|===
