docs/modules/con-api-compatability-developers.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following:
//
// assembly-overview.adoc

[id='con-api-compatibility{context}']
= Compatibility

[id='con-api-compatibility-api{context}']
== APIs

Kroxylicious follows https://semver.org/#semantic-versioning-200[Semantic Versioning] rules. While we are still in the initial development phase ({unstable-api-version}), we still take API compatibility very seriously. We aim to provide at least two minor releases between deprecation and the removal of that deprecated item.

We also consider our configuration file syntax a public API (though not the Java model backing it). As such, the syntax follows the same Semantic Versioning and deprecation rules.

Kubernetes custom resources are a public API, and we are making every effort to evolve Kroxylicious custom resources in line with https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definition-versioning/[Kubernetes best practices]. Kubernetes resources have their own versioning scheme, which is independent of the Kroxylicious proxy service version. As a result, we may reach {stable-api-version} of Kroxylicious while still using alpha or beta versions of the custom resources.

[id='con-api-compatibility-third-party{context}']
=== Third-party plugins

Kroxylicious supports loading third-party plugins to extend the core functionality of the project. While these plugins are configured and loaded as first-class entities within Kroxylicious, we cannot guarantee the compatibility of their APIs or configuration properties.

We do however hold filters and plugins provided by the project to the same standards as the rest of the public API.

[id='con-api-compatibility-wire-protocol{context}']
== Wire protocol

Kroxylicious offers the same backwards and forwards compatibility guarantees as https://kafka.apache.org/protocol#protocol_compatibility[Apache Kafka]. We support the same range of client and broker versions as the official Apache Kafka Java client.

Commit message:

About sections + Developers API compat
Signed-off-by: Tom Bentley <tbentley@redhat.com>

docs/modules/con-api-compatability-developers.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following:
//
// assembly-overview.adoc

[id='con-api-compatibility{context}']
= Compatibility

There are effectively two APIs a filter developer needs to care about:

. The Filter API against which the filter is written.
This is a contract between the Filter developer and the Kroxylicious runtime. It includes `Filter`, `FilterFactory`, which the developer is responsible for implementing, and `FilterContext` and `FilterFactoryContext`, which are provided by the Kroxylicous runtime for the developer to use.
. The "configuration API" that your filter exposes. This is a contract between the Filter developer and Kroxylicious users.

== Compatibility of the Filter API

The Kroxylicious project uses semantic versioning.
For the filter API this means that you can compile your filter against the Kroxylicious API at version _x.y~c~.z~c~_ and users will be able to use it with Kroxylicious runtimes at version _x.y~r~.z~r~_ if the runtime version is not older than the compile time version (that is if _y~r~_ ≥ _y~c~_ and _z~r~_ ≥ _z~c~_).

== Compatibility of your Filter configuration

The Kroxylicious proxy isn't able to provide or enforce any compatibility guarantees about the configuration API that your plugin offers to users.
In other words you are free you release your plugin at version _a.b.c_ and later release a version _a.d.e_ which doesn't accept the same configuration syntax (JSON or YAML) that the original version did.

Doing this makes it more difficult for users to upgrade from older versions on your plugin, because they will have to rewrite and revalidate the configuration which worked with the old version.

For this reason filter developers are strongly encouraged to adopt Semantic versioning as the way to communicate compatibility of the configuration API they offer to users.
